introduction.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction and Major Ideas
#subtitle: intro to document
---

<a name="toc"></a>

1. [Goals, Motivation, and Approach for Facilitation Best Practices Documentation](#goals)
2. [What is Facilitation?](#whatis)    
	2.1 [Philosophically](#whatis-philosophy)    
	2.2 [In Practice (defining the Major Activities of Facilitation)](#whatis-practice)    
	2.3 [What Skills and Experience Should Facilitators Possess?](#whatis-skills)    
3. [Contributing to the Best Practices Documentation](#contribute)


<a name="goals"></a>
<h2>Goals, Motivation, and Approach for Establishing Facilitation Best Practices</h2>

<table class="img-panel"><tbody><tr>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/assistance_panel.png" alt="Engagement with Researcher"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/PEARC_forpanel.png" alt="ACI-REFs at PEARC17"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/bob-teaching_panel.png" alt="Bob Teaching"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/officehours_panel.png" alt="Christina Office Hours"></td>
</tr></tbody></table>

With a focus on truly accelerating scientific discovery, the
<a href="http://aci-ref.org">ACI-REF (Advanced Cyberinfrastructure - Research and Education
Facilitators) project</a> is changing the way that campuses approach cyberinfrastructure 
solutions and support for scholarship. ACI-REF facilitators (“ACI-REFs”) possessing 
significant interpersonal skills and cyberinfrastructure-dependent research experience 
provide proactive and personalized consulting to help researchers identify the greatest 
potential impacts to their projects. Rather than requiring significant depth of expertise 
in computing or IT, themselves, ACI-REFs leverage a network of IT staff and their expertise 
to translate technical and procedural information into ACI solutions for researchers via 
various engagement, teaching, and relationship-building activities. Through a 
‘teach-to-fish’ approach, dedicated ACI-REFs have enabled
<a href="https://aciref.rc.fas.harvard.edu/category/impact/">significant 
and previously unimagined scholarship outcomes</a> across a variety of research domains.

As a project, ACI-REF hopes to bring the successful practices of “facilitation” 
to other academic institutions and interested entities, and across many types 
of cyberinfrastructure, by documenting the best practices of ACI facilitation, 
herein. For simplicity, and because we hope that these best practices will 
generalize beyond the institutions within the ACI-REF project, we refer to 
“Facilitators” rather than “ACI-REFs” throughout the remaining *Facilitation 
Best Practices* content.

In particular, we hope that the documentation herein will achieve the
following goals and enhance the impact of ACI services for scholarship: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>describe the mechanisms by which effective facilitation leads to 
        positive impacts on scholarship</li>
        <li>inform the professional development of Facilitators</li>
        <li>assist supervisors in integrating, hiring for, and evaluating the Facilitator role</li>
        <li>refine the activities of other staff whose roles require aspects of facilitation</li>
</ul>
</div>

In the following portions of the *Introduction*, we define facilitation
and establish goals of impact for Facilitators as
compared to other traditional ACI staffing roles. Based upon this
philosophical description, we establish the major categories of
facilitation practices, referred to as *[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*,
and discuss implications for the necessary skills and background of
effective Facilitators. Thus, the majority of the *Facilitation Best
Practices* documentation is presented as chapters (1-10) describing
specific considerations and approaches for each activity. The entire set
of documentation is also accompanied by *[Key Terms and Definitions](../definitions)* of key terms and an
*[Appendix](../appendix)* with supplementary materials that are referred to within the
chapters.

Importantly, the best practices established in this documentation are
meant to be continually revised, leveraging perspectives not only from 
the institutions contributing to the ACI-REF project but also from the 
increasing number of institutions implementing facilitation practices. 
We also acknowledge that many
institutions may implement Facilitator roles within a variety of
contexts. For example, some Facilitators may assist a variety of
researchers with the use of a specific ACI resource, such as an
institutional, large-scale (“HPC”) computing center, centralized network
infrastructure, or data management service. Other Facilitators may be
more closely associated with a specific subset of researchers, perhaps 
for a specific department, college, or research
domain, and will more generally consult on the use of a variety of ACI
resource types for methods *specific* to the research domain. Across 
such a palette of facilitators and
specialization, we acknowledge that the 
*[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*
described herein will contribute in varying degrees to any single
Facilitator’s specific goals and practices.

There are a number of other specific interpretations of the “facilitator” 
term with accompanying documentation of best practices. Some of these 
refer more generally to the facilitation of group efforts in professional 
environments and other contexts. The documentation, has significant 
overlaps with other literature on "facilitators", and Facilitators of ACI 
resources for research might also benefit from considering these 
additional resources.

Jump to [top](#toc)

<a name="whatis"></a>
<h2>What is Facilitation?</h2>


<a name="whatis-philosophy"></a>
<h3>Philosophically</h3>

<h4><i>Facilitation is ...</i></h4>

Versus other ACI-related roles, a key component of Facilitation is to
assist researchers in leveraging ACI resources for themselves, rather
than performing research tasks on ACI systems for or as a contributor to
a specific research project. Thus, while many Facilitators spend their 
time on a variety of tasks that are
essential to providing ACI resources for research, the
activities of Facilitation are best represented in the below goals.
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>Promoting awareness of ACI resources and their usefulness</li>
        <li>Matchmaking of researchers and their needs with ACI resources and 
        solutions appropriate for their specific needs, including resources on-campus 
        and beyond</li>
        <li>Consulting with researchers on the integration of ACI resources for 
        the greatest impact to their scholarship, including the personalized 
        selection of approaches, processes, and tools</li>
        <li>Helping researchers to select from various analytical methods and 
        third-party tools, considering validity, ease-of-use, and scalability</li>
        <li>Training and assisting researchers to help them optimally leverage ACI 
        capabilities into the future</li>
        <li>Representing the user perspective to ACI service providers to 
        inform short-term responsive changes and improvements to ACI resources</li>
        <li>Understanding the evolving ACI needs of the research community, in order 
        to anticipate and advocate for necessary technology and human resources in the long-term</li>
        <li>Identifying and matchmaking potential collaborations between 
        researchers based upon common research goals and/or uses of cyberinfrastructure</li>
        <li>Researching and understanding new ACI resources and capabilities</li>
        <li>Partnering with staff at other institutions and organizations to promote the 
        sharing of expertise</li>
</ul>
</div>

All of these goals are enabled by the *Major Activities of Facilitation*, defined 
further below under *[In Practice](#whatis-practice)*.

<h4><i>Facilitation is NOT...</i></h4>

Though the above activities are within the defined scope of Facilitation
throughout this documentation, many Facilitators may spend time on additional
activities that are *not* within the defined scope of Facilitation and
that are not described. Examples of such activities
include, but are certainly not limited to:

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>building/configuring cyberinfrastructure systems, managing software 
        or middleware installations across systems, etc. (perhaps better defined 
        in the roles of Systems Administrator, Network Engineer, etc.)</li>
        <li>development of software for specific groups (better defined as Researcher, 
        Computational Scientist, Programmer, etc.)</li>
        <li>performing computational research work for specific groups, including 
        running computation work on ACI resources for research groups, outside of 
        testing/validating recommendations (better defined as Researcher,
         Computational Scientist, etc.)</li>
        <li>managing the roles of other staff at ACI resource-providing organizations</li>
        <li>managing special projects within ACI resource-providing organizations</li>
</ul>
</div>

<a name="whatis-practice"></a>
<h3>In Practice</h3>

The bulk of the documentation of best practices lies within chapters for 
each of the below *[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch1.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/01-getting-established/">Getting Established</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Defining one’s role, including expectations of institutional support 
            required for effective facilitation. Training and education of new 
            facilitators. Establishing initial connections with other staff.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch2.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/02-outreach/">Outreach</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Promoting awareness and understanding of the facilitator role and of ACI
            resources to potential users of ACI resources and to various
            administrators, including entities who exist within and external to your
            institution. Effectively targeting key audiences.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch3.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/03-engagement/">Engagement with Researchers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>One-on-one and small-group meetings to understand researcher goals and
            practices, recommend appropriate ACI resources, identify potential
            knowledge gaps, and develop an overall plan for utilizing ACI resources.
            Record-keeping of engagements and following up.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch4.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/04-aci_plan/">Implementing an ACI Plan</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Working with researchers to establish longer-term paths for the use of
            ACI capabilities for specific research projects, as needed. Following-up
            with researchers proceeding through a plan. Working with ACI resource
            providers for expertise and to accommodate necessary technical solutions.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch5.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/05-assistance/">Assisting Researchers in the Use of ACI Resources</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Establishing proactive and reactive support routes for researchers who
            use ACI resources, including standards of response. Promoting learning
            and user empowerment in providing support for user-reported or observed
            issues. Leveraging external technical expertise.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch6.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/06-education/">Education and Training of Researchers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Identifying and leveraging existing learning resources for ACI topics
            and resources. Developing novel materials for in-person learning and
            self-directed learning, including both education (knowledge/awareness)
            and training (skills/practice). Leveraging established practices for
            effective teaching.  </i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch7.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/07-aci_knowledge/">Enhancing ACI Knowledge</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Proactively and reactively identifying available ACI resources.
            Gaining necessary knowledge and skills relevant to ACI resources.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch8.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/08-connections/">Facilitating Researcher Connections</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Promoting opportunities for peer-learning between researchers. Aiding in
            the formation of informal and formal collaborations. Liaising and
            matchmaking between users and ACI resource providers, where appropriate.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch9.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/09-interface/">Interfacing with ACI Resource Providers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Building working relationships with other ACI staff. Liaising in the
            exchange of expertise between ACI resource staff, including intra- and
            inter-institutional connections. Translating user feedback to inform the
            enhancement and optimization of ACI Resources.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch10.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/10-assessment/">Metrics and Assessment</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Continuous assessment of the effectiveness of facilitation practices, 
            including the evaluation of facilitation impact as tied to user feedback, 
            as well as evaluating changes in the patterns of ACI utilization by 
            different users and groups, changes in user demographics over time, etc., 
            to improve and remodel facilitation efforts and to assess overall impact. </i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>    
</table>

<a name="whatis-skills"></a>
<h3>What Traits and Professional Background Should Facilitators Possess?</h3>

Based upon the major activities described above, there are a variety of
specific skills, traits, and experiences important for serving as a Facilitator.
Thus, individuals acting as Facilitators will be most effective if they
already possess the qualities listed below. However, some of the knowledge pertaining to
the below qualities can also be picked up as a new Facilitator comes
into their role.	

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>excellent written and verbal communication skills </li>
        <li>comfortable and effective public speaking</li>
        <li>strong interpersonal and networking skills</li>
        <li>advanced skills in time management and context-switching</li>
        <li>prior experience conducting work on research projects that employ 
        significant use of advanced cyberinfrastructure</li>
        <li>empathy for integrating advanced cyberinfrastructure into research</li>
        <li>ability to translate between the vocabulary of researchers and 
        that of ACI technical staff</li>
        <li>ability to understand research publications</li>
        <li>desire to assist researchers from - and to learn about - a wide set of 
        research areas, beyond their own domain of expertise</li>
        <li>desire to understand multiple aspects of a problem; persistence in 
        identifying appropriate solutions and effectively communicating them to others</li>
        <li>demonstrated effectiveness in teaching technical information 
        (formal or informal experiences), in one-to-one and one-to-many formats</li>
        <li>general desire for constant learning and ability to learn/adapt quickly</li>
        <li>interest in advancing personal knowledge of a range of advanced 
        cyberinfrastructure technologies</li>
</ul>
</div>

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="contribute"></a>
<h2>Contributing</h2>

Learn more about [Contributing](../contributing) to this Documentation. We want your input!

Jump to: [top](#toc)

Commit message:

change "best practice" to "leading practice" in text and URLs

introduction.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction and Major Ideas
#subtitle: intro to document
---

<a name="toc"></a>

1. [Goals, Motivation, and Approach for Facilitation Leading Practices Documentation](#goals)
2. [What is Facilitation?](#whatis)    
	2.1 [Philosophically](#whatis-philosophy)    
	2.2 [In Practice (defining the Major Activities of Facilitation)](#whatis-practice)    
	2.3 [What Skills and Experience Should Facilitators Possess?](#whatis-skills)    
3. [Contributing to the Leading Practices Documentation](#contribute)


<a name="goals"></a>
<h2>Goals, Motivation, and Approach for Establishing Facilitation Leading Practices</h2>

<table class="img-panel"><tbody><tr>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/assistance_panel.png" alt="Engagement with Researcher"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/PEARC_forpanel.png" alt="ACI-REFs at PEARC17"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/bob-teaching_panel.png" alt="Bob Teaching"></td>
  <td><img class="panel" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/officehours_panel.png" alt="Christina Office Hours"></td>
</tr></tbody></table>

With a focus on truly accelerating scientific discovery, the
<a href="http://aci-ref.org">ACI-REF (Advanced Cyberinfrastructure - Research and Education
Facilitators) project</a> is changing the way that campuses approach cyberinfrastructure 
solutions and support for scholarship. ACI-REF facilitators (“ACI-REFs”) possessing 
significant interpersonal skills and cyberinfrastructure-dependent research experience 
provide proactive and personalized consulting to help researchers identify the greatest 
potential impacts to their projects. Rather than requiring significant depth of expertise 
in computing or IT, themselves, ACI-REFs leverage a network of IT staff and their expertise 
to translate technical and procedural information into ACI solutions for researchers via 
various engagement, teaching, and relationship-building activities. Through a 
‘teach-to-fish’ approach, dedicated ACI-REFs have enabled
<a href="https://aciref.rc.fas.harvard.edu/category/impact/">significant 
and previously unimagined scholarship outcomes</a> across a variety of research domains.

As a project, ACI-REF hopes to bring the successful practices of “facilitation” 
to other academic institutions and interested entities, and across many types 
of cyberinfrastructure, by documenting the leading practices of ACI facilitation, 
herein. For simplicity, and because we hope that these leading practices will 
generalize beyond the institutions within the ACI-REF project, we refer to 
“Facilitators” rather than “ACI-REFs” throughout the remaining *Facilitation 
Leading Practices* content.

In particular, we hope that the documentation herein will achieve the
following goals and enhance the impact of ACI services for scholarship: 

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>describe the mechanisms by which effective facilitation leads to 
        positive impacts on scholarship</li>
        <li>inform the professional development of Facilitators</li>
        <li>assist supervisors in integrating, hiring for, and evaluating the Facilitator role</li>
        <li>refine the activities of other staff whose roles require aspects of facilitation</li>
</ul>
</div>

In the following portions of the *Introduction*, we define facilitation
and establish goals of impact for Facilitators as
compared to other traditional ACI staffing roles. Based upon this
philosophical description, we establish the major categories of
facilitation practices, referred to as *[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*,
and discuss implications for the necessary skills and background of
effective Facilitators. Thus, the majority of the *Facilitation Best
Practices* documentation is presented as chapters (1-10) describing
specific considerations and approaches for each activity. The entire set
of documentation is also accompanied by *[Key Terms and Definitions](../definitions)* of key terms and an
*[Appendix](../appendix)* with supplementary materials that are referred to within the
chapters.

Importantly, the leading practices established in this documentation are
meant to be continually revised, leveraging perspectives not only from 
the institutions contributing to the ACI-REF project but also from the 
increasing number of institutions implementing facilitation practices. 
We also acknowledge that many
institutions may implement Facilitator roles within a variety of
contexts. For example, some Facilitators may assist a variety of
researchers with the use of a specific ACI resource, such as an
institutional, large-scale (“HPC”) computing center, centralized network
infrastructure, or data management service. Other Facilitators may be
more closely associated with a specific subset of researchers, perhaps 
for a specific department, college, or research
domain, and will more generally consult on the use of a variety of ACI
resource types for methods *specific* to the research domain. Across 
such a palette of facilitators and
specialization, we acknowledge that the 
*[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*
described herein will contribute in varying degrees to any single
Facilitator’s specific goals and practices.

There are a number of other specific interpretations of the “facilitator” 
term with accompanying documentation of leading practices. Some of these 
refer more generally to the facilitation of group efforts in professional 
environments and other contexts. The documentation, has significant 
overlaps with other literature on "facilitators", and Facilitators of ACI 
resources for research might also benefit from considering these 
additional resources.

Jump to [top](#toc)

<a name="whatis"></a>
<h2>What is Facilitation?</h2>


<a name="whatis-philosophy"></a>
<h3>Philosophically</h3>

<h4><i>Facilitation is ...</i></h4>

Versus other ACI-related roles, a key component of Facilitation is to
assist researchers in leveraging ACI resources for themselves, rather
than performing research tasks on ACI systems for or as a contributor to
a specific research project. Thus, while many Facilitators spend their 
time on a variety of tasks that are
essential to providing ACI resources for research, the
activities of Facilitation are best represented in the below goals.
<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>Promoting awareness of ACI resources and their usefulness</li>
        <li>Matchmaking of researchers and their needs with ACI resources and 
        solutions appropriate for their specific needs, including resources on-campus 
        and beyond</li>
        <li>Consulting with researchers on the integration of ACI resources for 
        the greatest impact to their scholarship, including the personalized 
        selection of approaches, processes, and tools</li>
        <li>Helping researchers to select from various analytical methods and 
        third-party tools, considering validity, ease-of-use, and scalability</li>
        <li>Training and assisting researchers to help them optimally leverage ACI 
        capabilities into the future</li>
        <li>Representing the user perspective to ACI service providers to 
        inform short-term responsive changes and improvements to ACI resources</li>
        <li>Understanding the evolving ACI needs of the research community, in order 
        to anticipate and advocate for necessary technology and human resources in the long-term</li>
        <li>Identifying and matchmaking potential collaborations between 
        researchers based upon common research goals and/or uses of cyberinfrastructure</li>
        <li>Researching and understanding new ACI resources and capabilities</li>
        <li>Partnering with staff at other institutions and organizations to promote the 
        sharing of expertise</li>
</ul>
</div>

All of these goals are enabled by the *Major Activities of Facilitation*, defined 
further below under *[In Practice](#whatis-practice)*.

<h4><i>Facilitation is NOT...</i></h4>

Though the above activities are within the defined scope of Facilitation
throughout this documentation, many Facilitators may spend time on additional
activities that are *not* within the defined scope of Facilitation and
that are not described. Examples of such activities
include, but are certainly not limited to:

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>building/configuring cyberinfrastructure systems, managing software 
        or middleware installations across systems, etc. (perhaps better defined 
        in the roles of Systems Administrator, Network Engineer, etc.)</li>
        <li>development of software for specific groups (better defined as Researcher, 
        Computational Scientist, Programmer, etc.)</li>
        <li>performing computational research work for specific groups, including 
        running computation work on ACI resources for research groups, outside of 
        testing/validating recommendations (better defined as Researcher,
         Computational Scientist, etc.)</li>
        <li>managing the roles of other staff at ACI resource-providing organizations</li>
        <li>managing special projects within ACI resource-providing organizations</li>
</ul>
</div>

<a name="whatis-practice"></a>
<h3>In Practice</h3>

The bulk of the documentation of leading practices lies within chapters for 
each of the below *[Major Activities of Facilitation](../activities)*.

<table>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch1.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/01-getting-established/">Getting Established</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Defining one’s role, including expectations of institutional support 
            required for effective facilitation. Training and education of new 
            facilitators. Establishing initial connections with other staff.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch2.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/02-outreach/">Outreach</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Promoting awareness and understanding of the facilitator role and of ACI
            resources to potential users of ACI resources and to various
            administrators, including entities who exist within and external to your
            institution. Effectively targeting key audiences.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch3.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/03-engagement/">Engagement with Researchers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>One-on-one and small-group meetings to understand researcher goals and
            practices, recommend appropriate ACI resources, identify potential
            knowledge gaps, and develop an overall plan for utilizing ACI resources.
            Record-keeping of engagements and following up.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch4.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/04-aci_plan/">Implementing an ACI Plan</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Working with researchers to establish longer-term paths for the use of
            ACI capabilities for specific research projects, as needed. Following-up
            with researchers proceeding through a plan. Working with ACI resource
            providers for expertise and to accommodate necessary technical solutions.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch5.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/05-assistance/">Assisting Researchers in the Use of ACI Resources</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Establishing proactive and reactive support routes for researchers who
            use ACI resources, including standards of response. Promoting learning
            and user empowerment in providing support for user-reported or observed
            issues. Leveraging external technical expertise.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch6.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/06-education/">Education and Training of Researchers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Identifying and leveraging existing learning resources for ACI topics
            and resources. Developing novel materials for in-person learning and
            self-directed learning, including both education (knowledge/awareness)
            and training (skills/practice). Leveraging established practices for
            effective teaching.  </i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch7.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/07-aci_knowledge/">Enhancing ACI Knowledge</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Proactively and reactively identifying available ACI resources.
            Gaining necessary knowledge and skills relevant to ACI resources.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch8.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/08-connections/">Facilitating Researcher Connections</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Promoting opportunities for peer-learning between researchers. Aiding in
            the formation of informal and formal collaborations. Liaising and
            matchmaking between users and ACI resource providers, where appropriate.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch9.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/09-interface/">Interfacing with ACI Resource Providers</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Building working relationships with other ACI staff. Liaising in the
            exchange of expertise between ACI resource staff, including intra- and
            inter-institutional connections. Translating user feedback to inform the
            enhancement and optimization of ACI Resources.</i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="width:10%;">
            <img class="chapter-icon" src="{{site.baseurl}}/images/Ch10.png" style="width:85px;height:85px;" />
        </td>
        <td style="width:30%;text-align:left">
            <h4><a href="{{site.baseurl}}/activities/10-assessment/">Metrics and Assessment</a></h4>
        </td>
        <td style="width:55%;">
            <br>
            <i>Continuous assessment of the effectiveness of facilitation practices, 
            including the evaluation of facilitation impact as tied to user feedback, 
            as well as evaluating changes in the patterns of ACI utilization by 
            different users and groups, changes in user demographics over time, etc., 
            to improve and remodel facilitation efforts and to assess overall impact. </i>
            <br>
        </td>
    </tr>    
</table>

<a name="whatis-skills"></a>
<h3>What Traits and Professional Background Should Facilitators Possess?</h3>

Based upon the major activities described above, there are a variety of
specific skills, traits, and experiences important for serving as a Facilitator.
Thus, individuals acting as Facilitators will be most effective if they
already possess the qualities listed below. However, some of the knowledge pertaining to
the below qualities can also be picked up as a new Facilitator comes
into their role.	

<div class="bullet-box">
    <ul class="bullet-list-square">
        <li>excellent written and verbal communication skills </li>
        <li>comfortable and effective public speaking</li>
        <li>strong interpersonal and networking skills</li>
        <li>advanced skills in time management and context-switching</li>
        <li>prior experience conducting work on research projects that employ 
        significant use of advanced cyberinfrastructure</li>
        <li>empathy for integrating advanced cyberinfrastructure into research</li>
        <li>ability to translate between the vocabulary of researchers and 
        that of ACI technical staff</li>
        <li>ability to understand research publications</li>
        <li>desire to assist researchers from - and to learn about - a wide set of 
        research areas, beyond their own domain of expertise</li>
        <li>desire to understand multiple aspects of a problem; persistence in 
        identifying appropriate solutions and effectively communicating them to others</li>
        <li>demonstrated effectiveness in teaching technical information 
        (formal or informal experiences), in one-to-one and one-to-many formats</li>
        <li>general desire for constant learning and ability to learn/adapt quickly</li>
        <li>interest in advancing personal knowledge of a range of advanced 
        cyberinfrastructure technologies</li>
</ul>
</div>

Jump to: [top](#toc)

<a name="contribute"></a>
<h2>Contributing</h2>

Learn more about [Contributing](../contributing) to this Documentation. We want your input!

Jump to: [top](#toc)
